Non verbal communication is an underutilzed aspect of interacting with people. 
This essay will go over the what, why, and how non verbal communication works and how it is slowly being unlearnt by the general population.

Non verbal communication is any form of communication done through body gestures, facial movement, personal space, the clothes you wear, and more.  
Each of these parts contribute greatly to the overall conversation contributing nuance where words can't get the full meaning across.<sup>[[1]](## "Hull, Raymond H. PhD. The Art of Nonverbal Communication in Practice. The Hearing Journal 69(5):p 22,24, May 2016. | DOI: 10.1097/01.HJ.0000483270.59643.cc ")</sup>  
For example depending on the clothes you wear you portray a different image of who you are.
A person wearing a pressed suit, tie, and dress pants tends to portray an image of class or style thats simply not there in a bloke wearing an old sweater and trackies.<sup>[[2]](## "Ames, K.L., 1980. Material culture as nonverbal communication: A historical case
study. Journal of American Culture 3 (4), 619–641. doi:10.1111/j.1542-
734X.1980.0304_619.x.")</sup>  
This also ends up influencing their attitude too. each of these two would act differently if they wore different clothes the suited person wouldnt seem so high class and conversely with the trackie bloke.  

Body gestures are a more obvious form of non verbal communication this ranges everything from hand gestures to acting something out, you probably already use Body gestures every single time you talk to someone in person.  
Body gestures are also generally universal allowing you to have a conversation with someone who doesnt understand you or you dont understand them.  
Like pointing at something, putting up two fingers to indicate two of something, no words are needed but its still easily understood.  
You can easily have entire conversations with randoms without saying a word just communicating through purely non verbal means though do expect alot of mimicking each others actions.<sup>[[4]](## "Hess, Ursula. (2016). Nonverbal Communication. Encyclopedia of Mental Health. 10.1016/B978-0-12-397045-9.00218-4.")</sup>  

However non verbal communication is slowly being faded out as we move further away from talking to people in person instead prefering to communicate from online platforms either social media or text mostly.<sup>[[5]](## "Valkenburg, P. M., and Peter, J. (2009). Social consequences of the internet for adolescents: a decade of research. Curr. Dir. Psychol. Sci. 18, 1–5. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-8721.2009.01595.x")</sup>  
Even video calls where you are able to see the person through a screen and see some non verbal communication.  
You still end up losing a large part of it due to you only being able to see the top half of their body, so you cant see any form of non verbal communication that uses the lower half like posture, clothes and personal space.<sup>[[6]](## "Neureiter, K., Fuchsberger, V., Murer, M., and Tscheligi, M. (2013). “Hands and eyes: how eye contact is linked to gestures in video conferencing,” in Proceedings of the CHI ‘13 Extended Abstracts on Human Factors in Computing Systems, eds W. E. Mackay, S. A. Brewster, and S. Bødker (New York, NY: Association for Computing Machinery), 127–132.")</sup>  
There are some things you can do to get closer to full non verbal communication while staying virtual but they are all impractical for general usage.

This wouldnt be that important if Non verbal communication was just a small part of talking to others and only helped with small nuances, this is not the case.
Non verbal communication is vital in any environment.  
It helps with gauging engagement to see if your talks are being well received, for helping others in a situation where you are unable to speak to them, to let a boss know if their employees are doing their job correctly or just about anything that relies on talking to another person.  
In situations where people were forced to work together without non verbal communication they performed far worse at complex tasks then those who could see each other and do non verbal communication.<sup>[[6]](## "Michael, Plumb. (2013). NON-VERBAL COMMUNICATION IN INSTANT MESSAGING. https://www.suu.edu/hss/comm/masters/capstone/thesis/plumb-mi.pdf")</sup>

There has also been a large amount of debate over exactly how *much* impact non verbal communication has over communicating an early estimate showed a ratio of 55% body language, 38% tone of voice and 7% words.  
This ratio stems from the 1967 research paper on nonverbal messages conducted by Albert Mehrabian<sup>[[7]](## "Mehrabian, A., & Ferris, S. R. (1967). Inference of attitudes from nonverbal communication in two channels. Journal of Consulting Psychology, 31(3), 248–252. https://doi.org/10.1037/h0024648")</sup> This estimate of 93% of meaning in any exchange is nonverbal has permiated throughout society as a whole even though the sample size of the research was not only pitifully small with only 37 female psychology majors as test subjects and the language prompt was also lacking consiting only of the word "Maybe" making the word part of the ratio completely useless as an indicator of how much nonverbal communication helps.  
On top of this Albert Mehrabian said in a later statement
“My findings are often misquoted . .. Clearly, it is absurd to imply or suggest that the verbal portion of all communication constitutes only 7% of the message. Suppose I want to tell you that the eraser you are looking for is in the second right-hand drawer of my desk in my third floor office. How could anyone contend that the verbal part of this message is only 7% of the message?”[[8]](## "Lapakko, D. (1997). Three cheers for language: A closer examination of a widely cited study of nonverbal communication. Communication Education, 46(1), 63–67. https://doi.org/10.1080/03634529709379073") So with this knowledge that the 93% statistic is likely wrong I tried searching for another answer but I couldnt find anything close to concrete for this the closest I could find was meta analysis about the ratio and its ascension into being the best known numbers in the entire communication field.  
All the other Figures I could find were ball park figures ranging from between 60% and 70% <sup>[[9]](## "Mehrabian, A. (1981) Silent Messages: Implicit Communication of Emotions and Attitudes. 2nd Edition, Wadsworth, Belmont.")</sup> to statements like "may not be exactly 90%". <sup>[[10]](## "Unknown Author, University Of Texas Permian Basin. How Much of Communication is Nonverbal?. https://online.utpb.edu/about-us/articles/communication/how-much-of-communication-is-nonverbal/")</sup> This leads into a strange situation where not only has the most well known metric of how important nonverbal communication is become wrong. But most places parrot the 93% ratio regardless of how big or small they are. And as I am not an expert in this field my lack of knowledge prevents me from finding a proper estimate for nonverbal communication. What is clear however is that Nonverbal communication is a large part of communication as a whole.

In Conclusion Non verbal communication while something that I initially thought was an underutilized aspect of interacting with people is used far more often than I expected.  
However people are slowly forgetting how to fully utilize it as we transition to more abstract forms of communication. On top of that trying to figure out the what, how, and why of it is a shockingly hard task to do considering the amount of conflicting information compounded by apparent lack of research in the majority of websites that say they can teach you non verbal communication.
